A, B, A, B, testing, A, B. Testing, C, D, C, D, C, D. Testing, C, D, testing.
Testing, testing, one, two, three.
Testing, one, two, three.
This is Thursday, January 24th, I believe it is.
And I have the pleasure and honor of recording the student memories of Frank Cox, class of... 65.
65.
1965.
Frank, to begin with, to introduce yourself to anyone that might hear this tape or read the transcription, describe family background going up,
What did family do and where and so forth?
Well, I grew up in a small town in northeast Texas, New Boston.
It's the county seat of Bowie County, right in the four states area of Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, and a town of about 2,000.
And my parents, nobody in my family had ever been to college, and I was the first one to ever even think about it.
My senior year in high school, of course, I was active.
most sports and baseball and basketball especially and loved sports and never had much background with the military, thought much about it.
My dad served in World War II in the Philippines and Okinawa, but other than that, didn't really have much background.
But Randy Wortham, who was a class of 59 at Texas A&M, was a few years ahead of me at New Boston and a great guy and played on the baseball team
So I came down to watch him play one weekend.
That was my first exposure and about my only exposure to Texas A&M.
I had been to Boise State my junior year in high school and so I saw the University of Texas which I later came to realize was really TU.
And really at that time didn't have any loyalty to either one and could just as easily have gone to TU in all honesty because I love baseball so much and they had such a great baseball program and I wanted to play
shortstop for a Southwest Conference.
So my dad was just never made more than $5 an hour his whole life.
What did he do for a living?
He did several things.
He was a traveling salesman for a lumber company and steel company in the Four States area for years.
Sold forwards and he was a district clerk for Bowie County for a few years.
That's mostly his background.
He grew up in Tennessee.
And my mother worked for 50 years in the same place in New Boston at the
First National Bank as the head cashier, 50 years.
No brothers or sisters.
You partly refer to this.
Why did you attend A&M and then you came to visit?
What impression did it make?
What were the factors that caused you to come down here?
I would really have to say with a background in sports and loving the camaraderie of working together with other people and I had an active background in church and just love the family feeling.
that A&M exhibited when I came here.
Didn't know much about politics or being a conservative or liberal, probably never even heard those terms in all honesty, but had that basic foundation and the ground level of what family was about.
And I love that spirit and knowing that I wasn't good enough to play athletics in college, that something like the Court of Cadets would be the closest thing that I could find or come to as far as having that same
feeling of camaraderie and oneness and teamwork.
Now you came only once before you came down to enroll?
Yes, sir.
I just had one time.
What kind of arrangements did you make?
When did you formally apply for admission and all that?
Do you remember?
It was, in fact, that's really my wife, before we moved to College Station six months ago, worked for the New Boston Independent School District.
and had access to the records and she looked back at my counseling record when I was a senior in high school and asking, this was during the latter months of my senior year and I still had not decided where I was going to go in all honesty and it was down to those two schools, Texas A&M or down to Austin.
So it was almost just at the end of my senior years when I finally made that decision
And I'm so thankful that I did.
What a difference.
I didn't know it at the time, but I've found out since.
When you came down then to enroll, describe who brought you and what you had.
My mom and dad didn't have any vehicles.
I didn't have a car.
Most of my buddies in the outfits didn't have a car during that time.
And my parents dropped me off in front of dorm six and left.
And, of course, I never had been away from home very much.
What did you bring with you?
What kind of stuff in your footlocker?
Oh, just the basics, whatever they told me to.
I can't really remember much, but it all fit in the footlocker, I'll tell you that.
And I know my Bible and just the basic clothing that whatever they told me to bring, which wasn't much, and maybe a lamp, steady lamp.
That's all that I really remember.
And did Mom or Dad or anybody else give you any final advice?
as you were getting ready to get out of the car or anything like that?
Well, my dad was a great man as well as my mother and just basically had always taught me the importance of always treating people fairly and just being honest and all the ethical aspects of behaviors that you usually grow up with in a small town and especially if you're involved in the Christian life.
And just told me to keep on keeping on
not to turn away from those basic morals and standards that I'd grown up with.
Did he give you any reason to be sure not to drop out and come home?
Well, just the battle that he always kept his homies did that he used several times in my growing up days.
Back in those days, they didn't have such a thing as time out.
It was knock out more than time out.
So never much threats.
He really wanted, he was, didn't have much education himself and he always appreciated that probably more than I did at the time.
I didn't realize the importance of it as much as he did.
And I wasn't all that mature as a freshman in all honesty.
It was just kind of a day-by-day, moment-by-moment existence at that time
plans of what I was going to be doing four years from now or what I always wanted to be.
It was just... All right, so they dropped you off.
They dropped me off, drove off.
I walked into dorm six, scared to death because being from a small town, nobody had ever chewed me out or talked to me the way I was getting ready to be talked to.
And I walk in and the sophomores just swarm you and I was really scared.
I didn't even unpack for two weeks.
I was stuck in a room
dorm six, room 106 and it was three bunks high and I had the top bunk and about a foot and a half from the ceiling was about all the room that I had.
Now how did you get assigned to that outfit, do you know?
I had, again, I was so ignorant of the situation at A&M and the Corps much even, didn't have any background about the different outfits and it was just assigned to me.
I did not know anybody and
in Squadron II, which was the outfit that I was assigned to, Gator II, easy come, easy go.
It was just by chance, but what a, I considered it by chance, but what a great chance because I developed the greatest friends I've ever had during my time there with.
Describe then the first day or two.
How did they get you?
Well, I had never marched in my life and,
or been in the military, I was good about keeping rooms clean, but not to the degree that they expected you to.
And some of my buddies were already quitting and leaving, and here I was five hours from home, 250 miles without a car, no way to get back except hitchhike, which I did several times back in those days.
But I think just the thing that was so different to me was the way that the sophomores had of making you feel about an inch high
worst cadet that they had ever seen at Texas A&M and made you believe it.
So going to chow, going to the mess hall, the dunking over in the quad, that was the toughest experience I think is trying to eat in the mess hall.
That was the toughest times when they asked you all the questions and the cush questions and I usually didn't know them.
And the marching, I couldn't tell the difference they were saying.
Left foot down, hit that left foot down on up and every,
sound out of their mouth sounded like it.
It was, uh, two, three, four, uh, uh.
And so I was, uh.
Now when did all, when did that kind of instructions begin?
Well, from the very first day, as far as I remember.
I mean, they were right on you from the very beginning.
You were, they started the training aspect of it.
They didn't get any time to ease into it.
It was, it was almost as if they expected.
This is the fall of 1960.
What?
61.
Yes, sir.
In fact, it was at a time Hurricane Carlo.
Carlo had hit the campus and hit Texas, and so there we were with a tremendous, terrible storm that came all the way up to College Station, and we experienced that in addition to the
hurricane atmosphere of the sophomores in our album.
Do you remember any particular damage on the campus from the hurricane?
I do not.
I'm sorry.
I just don't.
I don't either.
I just remember a lot of wind.
Yes, yes.
And rain and just made it much more miserable.
What was your first impression of the campus as you walked around?
Well, I always loved the campus and again, I liked the
the small town type atmosphere.
I don't know that I noticed so much the buildings.
I wasn't into noticing buildings or architecture or the style or anything of that nature much then.
It was some of the tallest buildings I'd ever seen, though, even though they weren't very tall back in those days.
It was taller than we had in New Boston, so it seemed big.
All right, now, in your growing up years, you all went to Texarkana.
if we wanted to go shopping or something.
And we had a little theater there in New Boston.
Back in those days, small towns, had a drive-in theater, had a movie theater, the Walkia, that I could go to for nine cents on a Saturday and see a major movie and a double feature and cereal and a couple of cartoons and newsreels and stay there all day for 14 cents.
You could even get a pickle or some popcorn.
But I presume you didn't go to Dallas, Shreveport, Little Rock very often.
No, very, very seldom.
My parents and me, it had to be almost like a vacation if we went to Dallas.
Actually, I had polio when I was six.
And so I went to Warm Springs, Georgia, which was the polio foundation where President Franklin Roosevelt actually went when he had polio.
And so that was the only traveling we had ever done out of Bowie County.
It's when they would take me and leave me there.
My mother stayed with me.
had to come back and work.
And I was there at Warm Springs for several months.
And had to go back every six months for several years till I was 16.
So my dad and mom would almost make a little vacation out of that.
And that was the only time, that was my exposure to some of the rest of the South mostly.
And when you came here, did the polio have any effect?
Well, I was very fortunate and blessed to, it really didn't affect me.
I played sports all through high school.
and had what most people would consider a pretty complete recovery.
And so it did not affect.
I played intramurals and went out for the baseball team.
And I was 5'6 and weighed about 112 pounds as a freshman.
And so I did not make the baseball team, but played intramurals and all those activities and loved that.
As you're becoming part of this outfit, what did the sophomores and the other upperclassmen tell you was special about that outfit?
Well, just like all the others I found out later, but I was convinced that we definitely had the best outfit on campus.
And we probably, in my thinking, we were.
We were.
Were you all concentrated in any major activities?
engineering or?
Mostly business.
Most of our upper classroom were business majors, accounting, marketing.
What did you think your major was going to be?
I started out in accounting because I loved math in high school, but finally realized pretty quickly that I wouldn't like sitting at a desk all day long with figures and changed it to personnel management.
And what dorm were you all in?
Dorm six, first floor.
First and second floor actually our outfit.
We didn't have lounges back then like they do now to the degree they do.
All right, those first few days and nights, you're here before classes begin?
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir, a little while.
I can't remember how long.
I remember we were here before kind of like they have now.
I don't believe they call it Fish Orientation Week like they do now, F-O-W.
I don't remember that term, but it was probably similar to that.
because we were there a few days before most of the upperclassmen came.
And how did that change things?
Well, that was a shock, of course.
You know, they were even worse than the ones that were there the first few days because they were chomping at the bits to lay on us what had been laid on them the year before.
And so I guess it was all college night is one of my first memories also when Rita Rainer, I can remember we,
No, not Reed.
You said Reed.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Yeah, Holly, I'm sorry.
G. Raleigh?
G. Raleigh.
And we were all, all the fish were sitting on the west side of the arena and all khaki-clad, burr-headed, all looked basically alike, scared to death.
And it was the night when they introduced the football team and the coaches and we were supposed to remember all their names and their numbers and their weight and their position and their height and where they were from.
And I'll never forget the head yell eater, Jim Davis, ran and jumped up on the stage and pointed out at the audience over with us fish.
And I could have sworn he was pointing right at me.
And he said, you ain't going to make it.
I know I was thinking to myself, I'd just been there a few days.
And I said, it is true.
Seniors do know everything.
And then he said, I want you to look at the men on your right and the men on your left because they ain't going to be here at the end of the year.
So I kind of glanced over to my right and there was fish Johnny Bickham from Van Vleck, Texas.
And I glanced at my left and there was fish Herb Pounds from Gonzales, Texas.
And I said to myself, I don't know about them, but I can tell you this.
I ain't even going to be here at the end of the week until it's the end of the year.
But thankfully I was able to make it through it.
Did both of them?
They sure did.
So all three of you?
We sure did.
Great guys.
We started out with
We were the class of 65.
We started out with about 65.
We wound up about 37 the end of our fish year, and less than that, every year some more would drop out.
All right.
Describe how you and your new old lady accommodated yourselves to a room.
Well, we started out three, like I say, to a room that was really made for two, and it wasn't long, though, before
Guys would start falling out and going home and quitting and opening up a few spaces, you know, and just learning how to keep your room.
There was always something that you thought you had to just ride, and they would always come up with something new every time that you hadn't thought of before as to where to look for dust or something of that nature.
Who was your old lady?
Well, I had several of my fish here.
It actually started out, like I say, because of the
those that were dropping out so rapidly, but one was Zelna Buford Moore.
Zelna.
I had never heard that name in my life, and he was from Corsicana, and 1961 was the last time I've seen him.
I've talked to people from Corsicana that know him, but he left, didn't make it through, but had a fish, Bill Music, also from Galveston, Texas, that
made it a couple of years and then dropped out, but Bill Music and... Describe that first semester, describe that fish room, that room.
Well, it was the room, the things I remember about it now that's pretty much different from, even though it's the same dorms that they live in now in the Quad, the major differences, I would say, is we had piping, pipes that ran through
ceiling that you that were visible probably a foot and a half from the top of the ceiling by the window and we were always hanging from those pipes and by our legs or our hands and and just anything different because we wanted to stay in that room and just had one sink and a couple of beds a couple of desks and that was about it of course no air conditioning probably a 60 watt bulb in the now was this was this a double-decker bunk or
It was double-decker.
In fact, it was three.
Starting out, it was three high, and that's why I was the smallest one, and I was on top bunk, and you'd raise up in the middle of the night if somebody would holler and hit your head on the ceiling.
Now, who decided, who got, who made that decision?
How did you get to be?
Well, I was, probably, I probably volunteered, because knowing me, again, from a small town, and just going that extra mile and trying to help others, and
not being too confrontational or demanding.
I was usually just willing to do.
It didn't matter to me.
I'd seen worse.
Describe what happened in the hallways those first nights as they tried to.
Of course, one of the toughest things was out in the hallway when they had you lined up on both sides of the wall all the way down.
The outfits then were so big and twice as big as they are now, I would say, for the most part, for most of the outfits.
And so you were lined up with,
nothing but fish on both sides of the hallway from one end to the other just about, and all that attention flat up against the wall, and here they are walking down the upperclassmen, chewing you out, and you're just looking straight across at the person across from you, and of course they're never supposed to smile or laugh or anything, and they'd call it, wipe that buzz off your face, and I had a tendency, I'm just pretty much of a happy-go-lucky guy, and so I was kind of,
in trouble most of the time for buzzing a lot.
In fact, Fish Pounds again from Gonzales, he would stand right across from me many times and he had eyebrows about an inch thick and they would be chewing on me and I'd be looking at Pounds and he'd start rolling those eyebrows up and down and I would crack up laughing at him and of course get me in trouble and we'd have to have our head about an inch, inch and a half away from the wall
when we did that and they would make us slap our forehead which would knock our head back into the wall to wipe that buzz off our face.
So that's the way they taught us to not smile.
How soon did the paddle get used?
I would say it wasn't right off the bat that I remember.
I would say that that came a little bit later on after they saw the ones who
were really gonna stick it out, the ones who they considered to be the, they were gonna make it and understood what the training was for and the purpose of it and what the kind that was gonna squeal on anyone for doing something like that because we didn't really see anything wrong with it in all honesty.
It was never vicious.
I was whipped with brooms and clothes hangers and paddles and rifle butts, you know, but it, not as bad as it sounds really.
I don't remember any,
damage or anything.
I mean, it hurt, yeah, but they'd get you about an inch from the wall.
As far as the clothes hanger, they wouldn't swing it at you, but they'd get you about an inch from the wall, your rear end, and then they'd get that clothes hanger, straighten it out, and run it down that wall.
And, of course, it was just vibrating all the way down the wall and just leaving whelps on you all the way down, basically, is the way that worked.
But, you know, we really did not consider that hazing, in all honesty.
In fact, there were
17 of us, at the end of the year, we were put on probation because the bulls from the Trigon found out about it, and some of the upperclassmen also had to sign in, but the next year, coming back, there were 17 of us had to sign in, every hour on the hour, every week,
weekend in a Class A uniform to Corps headquarters because we allowed them to whip us.
And it was against the rules, you know, or whatever.
I didn't know whose rules they were against.
They just said, bend over, and that's what we did, you know, and didn't think anything about it.
But anyway, they found out about it, and we had to sign in all the way up through, I believe it was
November, up close to Turkey Day ball game.
Now, how did you get your clothing, your stuff?
Where'd y'all go check it out?
It was up close to Dunkin'.
In that area, it seems to me like there was an area up there.
And again, I apologize for not having such great memory of some of these events, exact location.
Most of the time I was looking at the back of the neck of the guy in front of me and not even looking around.
I just pretty much did what they told me and that's look straight ahead.
But it was up in that area and I remember we had a laundry that we had to turn in in our duffel bags and go pick up our starched uniforms when they were ready.
And when you were issued these, were these new articles of clothing or some of them used?
Some of them I'm almost sure were used.
Yes, I'm sure that they were used in the head gear and the rain gear.
The khakis, we didn't have serge in those days as far as the underclassmen, and so the creases and all in the uniform didn't last all that long, and then you learned how to iron real quick.
Did they fit, fit fairly well?
You know, yes, pretty, pretty much, you know.
You learned not to have high water pants and things of that nature, but they, they were, and usually for many hours this time went by during that first year, they got a little tighter as,
Where'd you get the fish haircuts?
Do you remember?
It was in MSC.
It's where I got most of my haircuts the whole time I was there.
And they'd just march it over the MSC and just buzz it right off.
And, of course, most of us in those days had flat tops to begin with.
It wasn't as if most of us were getting too much cut off.
But there were some guys with
DuckTales, because that was kind of the fad, too, back in the early 60s.
All right, as you, do you remember, did you all register for classes the first semester, or did you get your classes?
Yes, we had, the main thing I remember about that aspect of it, of course, there weren't any computers or anything like that.
We just stood in long lines, is what I remember, it was a base of, long lines, and you'd wait in line to finally get up there, and right when you got there, they'd say, well, that just filled up, you know,
course you really need it or the time you really need it and so here you go again, have to go stand in another line and go through the same routine until you could get enough hours and one of the differences back then is most of us took 18 hours at least.
Some of these guys and gals today I understand, they might take 12, you know, which is really amazing to me but that shows they're smarter than us.
That keeps them around for about six years instead of four.
As far as you recall, describe going to class that first semester.
Of course, in addition to going to Duncan and meeting at Duncan and the tough times that that would cause and all the, with the hazing and all and the questions, walking across campus was also probably the next biggest fear of fish because you're expected to know anybody that you've met plus meet those that you have not met if they're going in the same direction.
It was quite an ordeal.
In fact, and this is the truth, I'm not exaggerating, I still have dreams about trying to get across campus as a fish at A&M.
This is 40 years later.
And I still dream about being late for class because I'm whipping out and they're taking me all the way across opposite direction of where I'm supposed to be going.
And I finally get to class and walk in and everybody's there and I'm embarrassed and I drop my books and I sit down and lo and behold it's the wrong class or I forgot my schedule
I don't have my schedule with me, and that dream that keeps reoccurring 40 years later, but it was pretty traumatic.
It's whipping out, but you learn to meet people and remember people, so it's one of the great traditions of A&M is meeting others, and that's why
Even today, a campus of 40,000 is still, for the most part, a friendly, small atmosphere type campus.
Describe going to class that first year.
Were there some... There were a lot of classes that I was from New Boston town.
You know, I had 56 in my graduating class and this small class, of course, everybody knew everybody and knew all the teachers even before you had them and went to church with them.
And I ate with them at restaurants, so it was that type of atmosphere.
The Texas A&M, which even though it was small in comparison to other schools or colleges, to me it was gigantic.
And some of the classes would have, you know, 300 or so.
some of the mandatory classes that everybody had to take, the English and the histories and things of that nature would have pretty big.
Do you remember any of those first year teachers, classes?
No, I have also tried to, and I tried to keep this from my son and daughter who wound up coming to Texas A&M that I was ashamed that I probably, I could tell them anything that happened in the Corps.
but I couldn't tell them very much about what I learned in class and my memories of those days aren't like they should have been.
All right, describe as much as you can the routine of a typical class day from the time you got up until you hit the sack.
What did you get up?
What time did you get up and what did you do?
Go through the whole day.
Well, it was more dark, the whistle jog.
The first thing you would hear would be the whistle jog blowing.
First call for chow in the mornings and
and calling out fighting squadron two.
First call for child.
Fold out for child in 15 minutes in a class A uniform.
And then he would recite the menu or the breakfast for the day, what we were having, eggs for cackle and bacon for bull.
That would be it.
At six?
Six sounds right.
I feel like that's what it was.
And we'd have 10, 15 minutes before we had to be completely up, shaved, dressed, cleaned up,
and in uniform and in the halls, standing at attention, ready to wildcat out of the dorm with our arms straight up, yelling as loud as we could.
It was a great sound hearing that in the quad.
I still love to hear that and to hold out in front of dorm six in formation and to get ready to morse to chow, which looking back was also a great time, especially, well let me continue with the day that we would morse to chow,
Since everybody was having to go to class, the upperclassmen didn't buy you quite as much at breakfast because they also had to go to class and they couldn't just sit around like they did at the evening meal.
But we'd get back to the dorm and get our books and head off to class and meet people on the way and be in class for several hours, probably until lunch.
But in those days, we marched to chow all three meals.
Now, what did you take with you to class?
Well, we didn't have satchels or anything like that.
We weren't allowed to take anything that might help us a little bit.
So, it was just books and notebook and your pen or whatever's required, a pen, a pencil, you know, just
Now, could you have a pen?
No, you could not.
You couldn't have anything in your uniform except what was military.
And it just had to be, it was just all the same, straight laced.
And in the dorm, in the normal routine, when did you all shower?
In the mornings or at night?
At night is what I want to say.
It seems like it was at night most of the time.
And you shaved?
In the morning, usually.
At the sink in your room?
At the sink, yes.
Yes, we did, and there were two of us or three of us there trying to use the same sink.
Okay, so then off to class, and you're in class pretty well all morning.
We are, we are.
Come back for chow, get back, put our books up, fall out for chow, and actually march to chow as a unit, and come back and probably have some afternoon classes, and then usually intramurals.
There's a real big-time intramural program at A&M and in the Corps, and you were expected
participate, and of course I loved to anyway, and one of the differences I guess back then is also, that was during the regular work, I mean during the regular week, but back then the Saturdays were also taken up, even if it wasn't a ball game weekend, out on Duncan Field marching, for my mean, early in the morning, 5.30 or something in the morning, and you would go out there and practice marching and drilling and
formations and learning a little bit about that aspect of the military life for several hours.
All right, now there was all this emphasis on getting you whipped into shape for the Corps.
Yes.
What kind of preparation did they give you about studying and how to learn?